# Bhojpur.NET Platform Installer

It is an easier way to get started with Bhojpur.NET Platform - Self-Hosted installation

# Key Requirements

- A machine running Linux/MacOS and Docker
- [Kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl) installed
- A [Kubernetes cluster configured](https://docs.bhojpur.net/self-hosted/latest/installation)
- A [TLS certificate](#tls-certificates)

Or,

The process to install Bhojpur.NET Platform is described below:
1. generate a base config set
2. amend the config to suit your own use-case
3. validate configuration
4. render the Kubernetes YAML
5. `kubectl apply`

# Quickstart

### Option 1 - download a pre-built Bhojpur.NET Platform Installer

```shell
docker create -ti --name installer us-west2-docker.pkg.dev/bhojpur/platform/build/installer:$TAG
docker cp installer:/app/installer ./installer
docker rm -f installer
```

### Option 2 - use `go run`

```shell
# Get the versions
docker run -it --rm us-west2-docker.pkg.dev/bhojpur/platform/build/versions:$TAG cat /versions.yaml > versions.yaml
```

For every command below, replace `installer` with `go run . --debug-version-file ./versions.yaml`.

## Generate the base config

```shell
./installer init > bhojpur.config.yaml
```

## Customise your config

There are many things you can change in your config, which can be found in
the [Configuration Guide](#config).

For the purposes of a quickstart, just change the `domain` to one of your
own.

## Validate

```shell
# Checks the validity of the configuration YAML
./installer validate config --config bhojpur.config.yaml
```

Any errors here must be fixed before deploying. See [Config](#config) for
more details.

```shell
# Checks that your cluster is ready to install the Bhojpur.NET Platform
./installer validate cluster --kubeconfig ~/.kube/config --config bhojpur.config.yaml
```

Any errors here must be fixed before deploying. See [Cluster Dependencies](#cluster-dependencies)
for more details.

## Render the YAML

```shell
./installer render --config bhojpur.config.yaml > bhojpur.yaml
```

## Deploy

```shell
kubectl apply -f bhojpur.yaml
```

After a few minutes, your Bhojpur.NET Platform installation will be
available on the specified `domain`.

## Uninstallation

The Installer generates a ConfigMap with the metadata of every Kubernetes
object generated by the Installer. This can be retrieved to remove
Bhojpur.NET Platform from your cluster.

```shell
kubectl get configmaps bhojpur-app -o jsonpath='{.data.app\.yaml}' \
  | kubectl delete -f - # Piping to this will delete automatically
```

**Important**. This may leave certain objects still in your Kubernetes
cluster. This will include `Secrets` generated from internal `Certificates`
and `PersistentVolumeClaims`. These will need to be manually deleted.

---

# What is installed

- All Bhojpur.NET Platform components
- Container registry*
- MySQL database*
- Jaeger operator*
- RabbitMQ
- Minio object storage*

\* By default, these dependencies are installed if the `inCluster` setting
is `true`. External dependencies can be used in their place

# Config

> Not every parameter is discussed in this table, just ones that are likely
> to need changing. The full config structure is available in [config.go](/installer/pkg/config/v1/config.go).

| Property | Required | Description | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `domain` | Y | The domain to deploy to | This will need to be changed on every deployment |
| `kind` | Y | Installation type to run - for most users, this will be `Full` | Can be `Full`, `Meta` or `Application` |
| `metadata.region` | Y | Location for your `objectStorage` provider | If using Minio, set to `local` |
| `application.runtime.containerdRuntimeDir` | Y | The location of containerd on host machine | Common values are: <ul><li>`/run/containerd/io.containerd.runtime.v2.task/k8s.io` (K3s)</li><li>`/var/lib/containerd/io.containerd.runtime.v2.task/k8s.io` (AWS/Azure/GCP)</li><li>`/run/containerd/io.containerd.runtime.v1.linux/k8s.io`</li><li>`/run/containerd/io.containerd.runtime.v1.linux/moby`</li></ul> |
| `application.runtime.containerdSocket` | Y | The location of containerd socket on the host machine |
| `application.runtime.fsShiftMethod` | Y | File system | Can be either `fuse` (fuse-overlayfs) or `shiftfs`. This depending upon your host OS/distribution. If unsure, use `fuse`. |

## Auth Providers

The Bhojpur.NET Platform must be connected to a Git provider. This can be done
via the dashboard on first load, or by providing `authProviders` configuration.

```yaml
authProviders:
  - id: Public-GitHub
    host: github.com
    type: GitHub
    oauth:
      clientId: xxx
      clientSecret: xxx
      callBackUrl: https://$DOMAIN/auth/github.com/callback
      settingsUrl: xxx
```

## In-cluster vs External Dependencies

The Bhojpur.NET Platform requires certain services for it to function correctly.
The Installer provides all of these in-cluster, but they can be configured to
use services external to the cluster.

To use the in-cluster dependency, set `inCluster` to be `true`.

## Container Registry

```yaml
containerRegistry:
  inCluster: false
  external:
    url: <url of registry>
    certificate:
      kind: secret
      name: container-registry-token
```

The `container-registry-token` secret must contain a `.dockerconfigjson`
key - this can be created by using the `kubectl create secret docker-registry`
[command](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/pull-image-private-registry/#create-a-secret-by-providing-credentials-on-the-command-line).

## Database

The Bhojpur.NET Platform requires an instance of MySQL 5.7 for data storage.

The default encryption keys are `[{"name":"general","version":1,"primary":true,"material":"7uGh3q8y2DYryJwrVMHs5kWXJlqvHWWt/KJuNi25edI="}]`

### Google Cloud SQL Proxy

If using a GCP SQL instance, a [Cloud SQL Proxy](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/sql-proxy)
connection can be used.

```yaml
database:
  inCluster: false
  cloudSQL:
    instance: <PROJECT_ID>:<REGION>:<INSTANCE>
    serviceAccount:
      kind: secret
      name: cloudsql-token
```

The `cloudsql-token` secret must contain the following key/value pairs:
 - `credentials.json` - GCP Service Account key with `roles/cloudsql.client` role
 - `encryptionKeys` - database encryption key. Use default value as above if unsure
 - `password` - database password
 - `username` - database username

### External Database

For all other connections, use an external database configuration.

```yaml
database:
  inCluster: false
  external:
    certificate:
      kind: secret
      name: database-token
```

The `database-token` secret must contain the following key/value pairs:
- `encryptionKeys` - database encryption key. Use default value as above if unsure
- `host` - IP or URL of the database
- `password` - database password
- `port` - database port, usually `3306`
- `username` - database username

## Object Storage

The Bhojpur.NET Platform supports the following object storage providers:

### GCP

```yaml
metadata:
  region: <gcp-region-code, e.g. asia-south1-a>
objectStorage:
  inCluster: false
  cloudStorage:
    project: <PROJECT_ID>
    serviceAccount:
      kind: secret
      name: gcp-storage-token
```

The `gcp-storage-token` secret must contain the following key/value pairs:
- `service-account.json` - GCP Service Account key with `roles/storage.admin` and `roles/storage.objectAdmin` roles

### Azure

> Azure Blob Storage is not S3 compatible. This uses Minio Gateway to
> provide an AWS S3 interface

```yaml
metadata:
  region: <azure-region-code, e.g. centralindia>
objectStorage:
  inCluster: false
  azure:
    certificate:
      kind: secret
      name: az-storage-token
```

The `az-storage-token` secret must contain the following key/value pairs:
- `accountName` - the globally-unique storage account name
- `accountKey` - access key for the storage account

### AWS S3

> This is currently only tested with AWS. Other AWS S3-compatible providers
> should work but there may compatability issues - please raise a ticket if
> you have issues with other providers

```yaml
metadata:
  region: <aws-region-code, e.g. ap-south-1>
objectStorage:
  inCluster: false
  s3:
    endpoint: s3.amazonaws.com
    credentials:
      kind: secret
      name: s3-storage-token
```

The `s3-storage-token` secret must contain the following key/value pairs:
- `accessKeyId` - username that has access to S3 account
- `secretAccessKey` - password that has access to S3 account

> In AWS, the accessKeyId/secretAccessKey are an IAM user's credentials with
> `AmazonS3FullAccess` policy

# Cluster Dependencies

In order for the deployment to work successfully, there are certain
dependencies that need to be installed.

## Kernel and Runtime

Your Kubernetes nodes must have the Linux kernel v5.4.0 or above and
have a containerd runtime.

## Affinity Labels

Your Kubernetes nodes must have the following labels applied to them:
- `bhojpur.net/workload_meta`
- `bhojpur.net/workload_apps`
- `bhojpur.net/workload_workspace_services`
- `bhojpur.net/workload_workspace_regular`
- `bhojpur.net/workload_workspace_headless`

It is recommended to have a minimum of two node pools, grouping the `meta`
and `apps` nodes together and the `application` nodes together.

## TLS certificates

It is a requirement that a certificate secret exists, named as per
`certificate.name` in your config YAML with `tls.crt` and `tls.key`
in the secret data. How this certificate is generated is entirely your
choice - we suggest [cert-manager](https://cert-manager.io/) for
simplicity, however any certificate authority can be used by creating a
Kubernetes secret.

The certificate must be associated with the following domains (where
`$DOMAIN` is the value in config `domain`):
 - `$DOMAIN`
 - `*.$DOMAIN`
 - `*.ws.$DOMAIN`

See [FAQs](#how-do-i-use-cert-manager-to-create-a-tls-certificate) for help
with creating a TLS certificate using cert-manager.

### cert-manager

cert-manager **MUST** be installed to your cluster. In order to secure
communication between the various components, the application creates
internally which are created using the cert-manager `Certificate` and
`Issuer` Custom Resource Definitions.

```shell
helm repo add jetstack https://charts.jetstack.io
helm repo update
helm upgrade \
    --atomic \
    --cleanup-on-fail \
    --create-namespace \
    --install \
    --namespace='cert-manager' \
    --reset-values \
    --set installCRDs=true \
    --set 'extraArgs={--dns01-recursive-nameservers-only=true,--dns01-recursive-nameservers=8.8.8.8:53\,1.1.1.1:53}' \
    --wait \
    cert-manager \
    jetstack/cert-manager
```

# FAQs

## Why are you writing your own Installer instead of using Helm/Kustomize/etc?

The Bhojpur.NET Platform Installer is a complete replacement for our Helm charts.
Over time, this had grown to be too complex to effectively support and was a
barrier to entry for new users - the base config was many hundreds of lines
long and did not have effective validation on it. By contrast, the Installer's
config is < 50 lines long and can be fully validated before running.

Also, by baking-in the container image versions to each release of the
Bhojpur.NET Platform Installer, we reduce the potential for variance making it
easier to support the community.

## How do I use Cert Manager to create a TLS/SSL certificate?

> Please see [cert-manager.io](https://cert-manager.io) for full documentation.
> This should be considered a quickstart guide.

There are two steps to creating a public TLS certificate using cert-manager.

### 1. Create the Issuer/ClusterIssuer

As the certificate is a wildcard certificate, you must use the DNS01 Challenge
Provider. Please consult their [documentation](https://cert-manager.io/docs/configuration/acme/dns01)
for instructions. This can be either an
[`Issuer` or `ClusterIssuer`](https://cert-manager.io/docs/concepts/issuer).

### 2. Create the TLS/SSL certificate

Replace `$DOMAIN` with your domain. This example assumes you have created a
`ClusterIssuer` called `bhojpur-issuer` - please change this if necessary.

This certificate is called `https-certificates` - please use that in your
Bhojpur.NET Platform installer [config](#config).

```yaml
apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1
kind: Certificate
metadata:
  name: https-certificates
spec:
  secretName: https-certificates
  issuerRef:
    name: bhojpur-issuer
    kind: ClusterIssuer
  dnsNames:
    - $DOMAIN
    - "*.$DOMAIN"
    - "*.ws.$DOMAIN"
```

## How do I use my own TLS/SSL certificate?

If you don't wish to use cert-manager to create a TLS certificate with a public
certificate authority, you can bring your own.

To do this, generate your certificate as you would normally and then create a
secret with the CRT set to `tls.crt` and the Key set to `tls.key`.

The DNS names must be `$DOMAIN`, `*.$DOMAIN` and `*.ws.$DOMAIN`, where `$DOMAIN`
is your domain.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: https-certificates
data:
  tls.crt: xxx
  tls.key: xxx
```

## How can I install to a Kubernetes namespace?

By default, Bhojpur.NET Platform will be installed to the `default`
[Kubernetes namespace](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/namespaces).
To install to a different namespace, pass a `namespace` flag to the `render`
command.

```shell
./installer render --config bhojpur.config.yaml --namespace bhojpur > bhojpur.yaml
```

**IMPORTANT**: this does not create the namespace, so you will need to create
that separately. This is so that uninstallation of Bhojpur.NET Platform does not
remove any Kubernetes objects, such as your TLS certificate or connection secrets.

```shell
kubectl create namespace bhojpur
```

# Todo

PRs/comments welcome
